Enhanced/Extended Links (ELinks)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Development version of Links (Lynx-like text WWW browser), with more liberal
features policy and development style.

This is the ELinks tree - intended to provide a feature-rich version of Links.
Its purpose is to provide an alternative to Links, and to test and tune various
new features, but still provide good rock-solid releases inside stable branches.

See the manpage for a detailed description of ELinks and its features.  If you
are more interested, you can examine the Links website at http://links.sf.net/.
For new ELinks version announcements please see the elinks-user mailing list at
http://linuxfromscratch.org/mailman/listinfo/elinks-users.

The ELinks site with some basic information is available at
http://elinks.or.cz/.  Please see the SITES file for mirrors or other
recommended sites. If you want to install ELinks on your computer, see the
INSTALL file for further instructions.

Why not contribute to Links instead?  Well, first I made a bunch of patches for
the original Links, but a significant number of them got refused  because
Mikulas did not like them, as he just wouldn't have any use for them himself.
He wants to keep Links with a relatively closed feature set and merge only new
features which he himself needs.  It has advantages that the tree is very narrow
and the code is small and contains very little bloat.  ELinks, on the contrary,
aims to provide a full-featured web browser, superior to both lynx and w3m and
with the possibilities of Konqueror and similar browsers. However, to prevent
drastic bloating of the code, the development is driven in the course of
modularization and separation of add-on modules (like cookies, bookmarks, ssl,
lua etc).

If you want to write some patches, please read the doc/hacking.txt document.

If you want to add a new language or update the translation for an existing one,
please read intl/README document.

If you want to write some documentation, well you're welcomed ;)

If you want to request features or report bugs, use the mailing list as
mentioned above, bugzilla at bugzilla.elinks.or.cz or come and see us on
irc.freenode.net #elinks.

$Id: README,v 1.22 2004/05/06 00:14:36 jonas Exp $

vim: textwidth=80
