		The Ultimate Bookmarks Guide

Glad to see you again, mortal. Now, we are going to learn about bookmarks - how
to use them, how to maintain them, and also something more about the file
formats and maybe even about the code structure later. But don't fear, we won't
burden you with it, just stop reading when you will know enough already.

In order to read this, you need some common sense, ability to start ELinks and
some idea about what's a web document, URL address and knowledge like that.

If we will ever mention some keys here, please note that you can rebind almost
any action to another key which you like more - then you must obviously imagine
your own key in place of that. Below, we will list all actions, options and so
on, related to bookmarks. We won't tell you how to rebind the keys, though;
another document will describe that.


		Chapter 1: The Bookmark Manager

Basically, almost everything is going on in so-called bookmark manager. That's
special dialog window, which contains listing of all bookmarks you ever told
ELinks to remember and it lets you to do with them anything you would ever want
to do with them.

You launch the bookmark manager by pressing the 's' key in standby (standard)
mode. You should see a big empty space (bookmarks will slowly appear there as
you will add them) and couple of buttons shrivelling at the bottom. So, as a
start, move with the right (or left, both will do) arrow to the button "Add
bookmark" and fill in the input fields it will offer to you. I mean, you can
type something like "ELinks homepage" to the first field, then move down by ie.
the down arrow and fill "http://elinks.or.cz/" to the second field. Then,
bravely press enter and watch the bookmark popping up at the top of the vast
area reserved for bookmarks.

Repeat this step few times. Now, you can move between bookmarks by the up and
down arrow, jump to the location any of them points to by the Goto button,
change it by the Edit button, delete it with the Delete button and so on.. When
you'll become bored, press the escape button and you're free again!


		Chapter 2: The Ancient Forests

It's not very convenient to have all the bookmarks mixed up - soon, you will
get lost in them. Thus, in ELinks you can categorize them to various folders,
subfolders, subsubfolders and so on, then you can expand and back enfold them
and so on.

In order to create your first folder, use button "Add folder" and fill the
first input field. You can safely ignore the URL field, ELinks will do the
same. *POOF* and you see it - it has that strange [+] or [-] thing there. If
it has [+] near, it's enfolded, while when it has [-] near, it is expanded,
while you can change that by pressing the spacebar.

In order to add a bookmark into a folder, move on the item of the folder (it
must be expanded) or onto any bookmark inside of the folder, and simply do the
usual "Add bookmark" job. You can also move the bookmarks around, obviously.
You need to first mark all the bookmarks (or even folders) you want to move
(using the Insert key, asterisk will appear near of all marked bookmarks), and
then move to where you want to have the stuff moved to, and press the "Move"
button.


		Chapter 3: Searching needle in the haycock

Of course, you can search in the bookmarks. Just use the "Find" button - for
convenience, you have current document's URL and title pre-filled there, and
for convenience only up-up-enter-down-down sequence is enough to have the
playground clean. Then, just fill substring of what you are looking for, and
the bookmarks will be filtered so that only the matching ones are shown.
