			Introduction to the World of ELinks

The goal of this introduction is to explain the basic concepts in ELinks, give
an overview of how to get started and serve as an entry point to many of the
(undocumented) features of ELinks. It won't tell you all the details, but
should hopefully give you an idea of how things work and make it possible for
you to even figure out how to go further.

Allthough ELinks is text-based, the user interface has many of interaction
methods normally found in graphical environments. There are menus, dialogs
with buttons and hierarchic list boxes with folders. Care has been taken to
make the interaction between various dialogs consistent, so the controls will
quickly become familiar to new users.

The user interface can be controlled using both mouse and keyboard, but
currently it is only possible to configure keybindings. Looking back, the
key-controls have been more advanced than the mouse support, but during the
0.10 prereleases the mouse support has been much improved. You will now find
find stuff like contextual menus when right-clicking in different document
zones.


Overview of the User Interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The most important dialogs, that you will meet, include the Main, Link and Tab
menus and the different managers. The menus serve as entry points to the
actions available from different contexts, while the managers let you check
the state and control the various subsystems, such as loaded cookies and the
global history. The utility menus and the manager tools are investigated
further below.

The document viewer in ELinks provides a feature-rich set of ways to browse
documents. That is, multiple options exist for navigating, searching and
displaying documents and you will hopefully figure in time what works best for
you. The basic browsing possibilities are presented below.

ELinks is highly configurable, so if there is something that you would like to
change it is most likely possible. The best overview of the many options are
given in the elinks.conf(5) man page. Keybindings are discussed in the
elinkskeys(5) man page. It is not always up-to-date, so you should also check
the keybinding manager and the overview of all the configured keybindings
given in the Help -> Keys dialog. The Keys dialogs serves as a good
introduction to the most common keybindings.


The Main, Link and Tab Menus
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Main Menu gives you access to many of the features of ELinks via submenus
and serves as a good entry point for performing actions on the different
objects of interest such as links, documents and tabs. The Link menu and Tab
menus are more specialized and targeted to a specific context, such as link
handling or managing the tab bar. Actually the Link Menu is accessible from
the Main Menu as a submenu.

Once you have familiarized yourself with the menus you will have a good chance
at gradually learning the most common keybinding, since all the configured
keybindings are shown as right aligned text. Menu entries can also be quickly
accessed using hotkeys. Hotkeys appear highlighted in the menu entry text. For
example the key-combo: "<Alt>-v i" will open the document info dialog
accessible from the View sub menu in the Main menu.


The Managers
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The managers let you control the state of subsystems, such as cookies and the
global history. They are accessible from the Tools or Setup submenu in the
Main Menu. The managers consists of an area showing a hierarchy of boxes and
buttons at the bottom. Below a view of the cookie manager is shown.

+----------------------------- Cookie manager ------------------------------+
|                                                                           |
|  [-]- bugzilla.elinks.or.cz                                               |
|   |    |-- BUGLIST                                                        |
|   |    `-- LASTORDER                                                      |
|  [+]- kerneltrap.org                                                      |
|  [+]-*dictionary.reference.com                                            |
|  [+]-*bjork.com                                                           |
|  [-]- www.google.com                                                      |
|        `-- PREF                                                           |
|                                                                           |
|                                                                           |
|                                                                           |
|                                                                           |
|  [ Info ]  [ Add ]  [ Edit ]  [ Delete ]  [ Clear ]  [ Save ]  [ Close ]  |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------+

The hierarchic boxes are either folders or leafs. Folder boxes are displayed
with a "[-]" or "[+]" before the name telling whether the folder is currently
open or closed. Leaf boxes are displayed indented compared to the folder they
are nested in. In the cookie manager example above "bugzilla.elinks.or.cz" is
a folder box and "BUGLIST" is a leaf box.

Boxes can be "marked", which makes it possible to select a group of boxes and
perform an action on them, such as deleting all marked boxes. If any box has
been marked the currently selected box is ignored when performing the action.
Marked boxes are displayed with an asterics ('*') prefixing the name.

The buttons make it possible to perform actions either on selected or marked
boxes or on all boxes in the manager. Buttons named "Clear" and "Save" are
performed on all boxes; "Clear" will delete all boxes and "Save" will update
the runtime state file associated with the manager in the ~/.elinks/
directory. Most buttons presses will query you before completing the action.

At any time both the currently selected box and button are highlighted. The
same goes for marked boxes. Most manager dialogs also maintains the state, so
that when you reopen the manager later it will have the same box selected and
the same folders opened or closed.

The basic default controls for managers are the following:

	Up/Down		Select the box above/below.
	'*'		Toggle marking of a box.
	Space		Open and close folders.
	Left/Right	Select the button to the left/right.
	Enter		Press the currently selected button.
	Esc		Close the manager dialog.

Some managers also supports searching, either by pressing the "[ Search ]"
button or by pressing '/'. By searching the empty string all hidden boxes from
the previous search will be shown again.

Note: This is still a work in progress and from here on an below everything is
marked TODO!

Navigation
~~~~~~~~~~

ELinks provides various ways to navigate documents. Depending on how documents
are structured it can be a great help to change navigation style.

 - Link Oriented Navigation:
   Directional and Up/Down.

 - Cursor Routing

 - Mouse?


Useful Document Display Options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Toggling color modes, plain/html and image link rendering.

Link numbering. 

 - Insert mode in text-input form-fields

Searching
~~~~~~~~~

 - Text searching using the normal search dialog

 - Incremental document text searching

 - Link searching


Hints and Odd Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

 - Numerical action prefixes. Example 3<Down> jumps down three links.

$Id: introduction.txt,v 1.4 2004/12/25 14:29:24 jonas Exp $
