		Managing remote ELinks instances with -remote

Some programs provide the ability to pass URIs to external programs. When
stumbling upon a reference to a page you want to see it is sometimes a kludge
to copy and paste it into ELinks. This is where -remote can be a nifty
solution.

When invoking ELinks with the -remote argument, it does not start a new
instance, but instead connects to an already running ELinks, making it
possible to control that ELinks instance. The -remote command line switch
takes a command consisting of the action to invoke and any parameters to the
action.  Here is an example for opening freshmeat.net in a new tab:

	$ elinks -remote "openURL(http://freshmeat.net/, new-tab)"

When running this command in a terminal you will see a small delay before the
ELinks returns. If no running instance was found it will return with the error
message:

	ELinks: No remote session to connect to.

All URLs passed to the openURL() commands can be URL prefixes, so the command
above could have simply used ``openURL(fm, new-tab)''.


Limitations and outstanding issues
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Remote control is implemented using the intercommunication socket created in
~/.elinks/, so the command has to be run on the same machine as the instance
you want to control. Or put differently: the two ELinks' need to share a file
system that supports socket files, which rules out usage of -remote over NFS.
This also implies that the ELinks instance you want to control should be
started without passing neither -no-home nor -no-connect.

The built-in -remote support is to some degree compatible with the one Mozilla
provides (http://www.mozilla.org/unix/remote.html), but with some home brew
extensions added and a few unsupported features. All support actions are
documented below.

Under some circumstances the use of -remote controlling can cause ELinks to
become unresponsive. This is cause by the current key press and mouse focus
being redirected to new tabs or dialogs opened by the -remote action.


Remote Actions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The command syntax is case-insensitive, for readability we use the casing in
the listing of supported commands.

Mozilla -remote compatible commands:

	ping()

		Checks for existence of a remote instance. Makes it possible
		for scripts to query if remote controlling is possible.

	openURL()

		Prompts for a URL in current tab by opening the Goto dialog.

	openURL(URL)

		Open the passed URL in current tab.

	openURL(URL, new-tab)

		Opens the passed URL in new tab.

	openURL(URL, new-window)

		Opens the passed URL in new window.

	xfeDoCommand(openBrowser)

		Opens an ELinks instance in a new window. This ELinks instance
		will connect to the already running one.

ELinks -remote extensions command:

	addBookmark(URL)

		Adds the passed URL to the list of bookmarks.

For ease of use the additional action argument can be omitted in which case
any URL arguments will be opened in new tabs in the remote instance. For example
by running:

	$ elinks -remote slashdot.org fm g:elinks

new tabs containing slashdot.org, freshmeat.net and a google search of elinks
will be opened.


$Id: remote.txt,v 1.3 2004/12/16 13:51:25 jonas Exp $
